##  Access Control (ACL)

### 1. When is Basic Authorization used vs. Bearer Authorization?
Basic authentication transmits credentials as user ID/password pairs, encoded using base64. The client sends HTTP requests with the Authorization header that contains the word Basic word followed by a space and a base64-encoded string username:password.

> Authorization: Basic ZGVtbzpwQDU1dzByZA==

Note: For basic authentication, as the user ID and password are passed over the network as clear text (it is base64 encoded, but base64 is a reversible encoding), the basic authentication scheme is not secure. HTTPS / TLS should be used in conjunction with basic authentication.

Bearer authentication (also called token authentication) has security tokens called bearer tokens. The name “Bearer authentication” can be understood as “give access to the bearer of this token.” The bearer token is a cryptic string, usually generated by the server in response to a login request. The client must send this token in the Authorization header when making requests to protected resources:

> Authorization: Bearer < token >

### 2. What does the JSON Web Token package do?
JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the HMAC algorithm) or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.

### 3. What considerations should we make when creating and storing a SECRET?
     - Never store unencrypted secrets in .git repositories
     - Store secrets safely
     - Restrict API access and permissions

------------------------------------------

### Terms: 

**encryption:** 
Encryption is a way of scrambling data so that only authorized parties can understand the information. 

In technical terms, it is the process of converting human-readable plaintext to incomprehensible text, also known as ciphertext. In simpler terms, encryption takes readable data and alters it so that it appears random. Encryption requires the use of a cryptographic key: a set of mathematical values that both the sender and the recipient of an encrypted message agree on.

**token:** 
-  A programming token is the basic component of source code. Characters are categorized as one of five classes of tokens that describe their functions (constants, identifiers, operators, reserved words, and separators) in accordance with the rules of the programming language.

-  A security token is a physical device, such as a special smart card, that together with something that a user knows, such as a PIN, will enable authorized access to a computer system or network.

**secret:**  
The secret key is combined with the header and the payload to create a unique hash. You are only able to verify this hash if you have the secret key.

**JSON Web Token:**  JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object. This information can be verified and trusted because it is digitally signed. JWTs can be signed using a secret (with the HMAC algorithm) or a public/private key pair using RSA or ECDSA.


